---
title: Mango IPA
subtitle: 
date: 2019-11-10
comments: true
tags: ["Mango", "IPA"]
---

This time around, I decided to go with a Mango IPA since I love mango and wanted to try making a fruit beer. I now have my Brewzilla 3.1 35L setup and a better, larger fermentation fridge. Hopefully this will up the quality of my homebrew and make the process a lot easier. The Mango is added during fermentation with the hops and left for a week or two.

**Mango IPA**  
https://www.brewersfriend.com/homebrew/recipe/view/369037/hey-mango-ipa  

**Grain Bill:**  
Pilsner Malt (Gladfield) – 2.6kg  
2 Row Malt (Barret Burston) – 2.6kg  
Rolled Oats – 570g  

**Hop Bill:**  
Columbus – 32g  
Cascade – 24g  
Amarillo – 24.5g  
Citra – 70g  
Mosaic – 30g  
180g Total  

Yeast: Safale US-05  
Priming: 2.25 volumes (4.5g of table sugar)  
Fermentation Temp: 19°C  
Water treatment: calcium sulphate (4g)  

Batch Size: 21L  
Total Water Needed: 32.65 Liters  
Mash Water Needed: 17.72 Liters  
Sparge Water Needed: 14.92 Liters  
Strike Temperature: 71C  
Pre-Boil Wort Produced: 25.46 Liters  

Mash in: 65 for 60 mins  
Mash out: 78 for 10 minutes  
Boil: 60 mins  

**Hops**  
8g Columbus      Boil       60 min  
24g Cascade Boil 30 min  
Whirfloc Boil       10 min  
24g Columbus    Boil       10 min  
24g Amarillo        Whirlpool at 80°C          20 min   
24g Citra              Whirlpool at 80°C          20 min  
30g Mosaic         Dry Hop after a week            
45g Citra              Dry Hop after a week  
1kg Mango Puree – Add with dry hopping (leave in fermenter for a week then cold crash for a day)  

Target OG: 1.058  
Target FG: 1.010 (6.31%)  
Pre-boil Gravity: 1.041 (at 60c)  
SG: 1.048 (at 40c)  
FG: 1.010 (18/11/19 on mango add)  

-Next batch, I will be using a crush that isn’t as fine, in order to help the grain bed flow. A BIAB style fine crush is not necessary. The sparge needs to be at a higher temperature and performed over a longer time period, while the grain bed should not be stirred after mash is complete.  
-When taking readings, I need to allow the wort to cool down to 20-30c in order to get an accurate reading. This should be done with the hydrometer and refractometer. When coming up to a boil, I can filter/recirculate the wort through the hop spider in order to remove any particles left in suspension.  
-I added the flame-out hops a little too late, as 80c was the goal. In reality, it was probably closer to 60c. This hop addition was let steep for 20 mins before removing the hop spider.  
-Water from the immersion chiller can be used as sanitisation water in order to be more efficient.  
-For temperature reading, next time, insulate the probe with something (stubby cooler, bubble wrap etc) and tape it to the side of the bucket. This will protect it from reading the ambient fridge temperature and give a more accurate wort reading.  

-1.7kg of Mango puree was added on 18/11/19. It was frozen and thawed out, while everything was soaked in star san. Fermentation picked up later that night and the next day.  

Dry hop date: 21/11/19. Gravity = 1.010  

Bottled on 27/11/19 – obtained 23 bottles  

This one wasn’t very heavy on the mango, next time I would probably double the amount of mango added since it doesn’t impart a huge amount of flavour. I used untreated tap water, which I now know contains chlorine and chloramine, which added some medicinal/rubbery flavour to the beer which wasn’t very desirable. There may have been some oxidation present due to too much time spent with the fermenter open while adding the mango.  